### Contents
- [Project Setup](#project-setup)
- [Building the Project](#building-the-project)
- [Technical Overview](#technical-overview)
  - [Base Idea](#base-idea)
  - [Code overview](#code-overview)
- [Branching Conventions](#branching-conventions)
- [Commit Message Conventions](#commit-message-conventions)

## Project Setup
* `java` version: AdoptOpen JDK 1.8

The project setup is quite simple. It's a standard `maven` project.
You can import the project into any ide such as `Eclipse` or `IntelliJ IDEA`.

`maven` will take care of resolving dependencies.
Both these IDE support importing of `maven` project directly.
Refer to their documentation to know more on how to import `maven` project in it.

The project uses `mvnw` (Maven Wrapper) which makes sure that the version across all the
builds remain same.

> Use `mvnw` supplied with project to build instead of custom `mvn` installation.

## Building the Project
The project can be built in multiple ways. Several IDE's directly support `maven` support natively.
That can be leveraged directly to execute the targets. Few of the important `maven` targets are:
* `clean`: Clean up the build i.e. delete `target` directory from project.
* `package`: Generates the plugin `jar`, which can be included as part of dependencies in your maven
project by explicitly specifying dependency path to a local `jar`.
Refer `maven` documentation to know how to add local jar as dependency.
* `install`: Generates the plugin `jar` and install it in your local repository. Generally local repository
resides in `$HOME\.m2` directory. This can then be directly included as the dependency in your project.

To build project from command line you can use these commands as per your needs.
*project-dir* is the location where `pom.xml` is present.
```console
foo@bar:~/poject-dir $  ./mvnw clean            # To clean up target directory
foo@bar:~/poject-dir $  ./mvnw package          # To generate jar
foo@bar:~/poject-dir $  ./mvnw install          # To generate jar and install it local maven repo
foo@bar:~/poject-dir $  ./mvnw clean install    # Recommanded way to do a full build
```
> Use `mvnw.cmd` instead of `/.mvnw` in windows systems.

## Technical Overview
This section comprises of a brief on technical aspects of the project describing the directory
structure and base idea used to create it.

### Base Idea
The base idea is to use a `freemarker` template which has a mock `svg` file and
fill in all the required values obtained from the configuration to it, then render the
template. This makes sure that we generate consistent and clean `svg` files.
Once we have this `svg` file, we can convert it to any image format such as `png`, `jpg`
etc.

The coloring and the percentage covered will be retrieved from the `csv` generated by
jacoco report. The path of the report will be provided by user. It will then read
`missed branches` and `missed instructions` as per the config and will calculate percentage.

### Code overview
The project structure is as follows:
```bash
├───src/
│   └───main/
│       ├───java/         # java source files
│       └───resources/    # freemakrer templates
├───.editorconfig         # config utility for editors
├───.gitattributes        # git config for the project
├───.gitignore            # ignore files for git
├───.travis.yml           # travis ci/cd config file
├───checkstyle.xml        # checkstyle config for code quality
├───CONTRIBUTING.md
├───LICENSE
├───pom.xml               # maven config file
└───README.md
```

**Java**
* `io.github.handofgod94.MyMojo`: This is the entry point for the `maven` plugin.
It reads the user configuration and then initializes the required class.
Once it has all the information, it renders the `freemarker` template.
*Refer to java docs for more info on each class*

**Resources**
* `io.github.handofgod94.templates.svg-badge-template.ftl`:
`freemarker` template for svg file which will be rendered through the mojo class.

## Branching Conventions
The issues can broadly classified into 3 categories.
1. Feature: A new functionality which needs or requested to be introduced.
2. Bug: An unexpected behavior of the functionality
3. Task: Routine maintenance task such as adding documentation, upgrading dependencies, verification of functionality etc.

For all the different types the branch name should be prefixed by `type` of issue plus the `id` of the issue
followed by `/` and then make sure the description is in `kebab-case`

```
<type>-<id>/<description-in-kebab-case>
```

For e.g. if you have following issues
* Feature: Add Custom Feature `#10`
* Bug: This is not working `#4`
* Task: Add more docs `#11`

then corresponding branch name will be like these

```
feature-10/add-custom-feature
bug-4/this-is-not-working
task-11/add-more-docs
```

Make sure you are using correct `id` for the issue, and you are creating it from correct release branch.
Current development will happen on `master` branch.
Patch and feature porting to previous version will be on `release-x.y.z` version.
* **x**: Major version
* **y**: Minor version
* **z**: Patch version

This means, if you are fixing a bug for `v1.0.0` then you have to create branch from `release-1.0.x`.
If you are creating feature for current release then the branch should be created from `master`.

## Commit Message Conventions
Commit message also follows similar conventions of using a fix prefix based on the type.
> Make sure to include issue `#id` in all the commit message to reference it correctly to an issue, followed by comma.

```
<Type> #<id>, Regular Commit Message Description
```

For e.g. if you are working on a feature for which you want to commit,
it may look like this

```
Feature #10, Added Custom feature
```
Notice the first letter in the message is in caps. i.e.
* for feature it will be `Feature`
* for bug it will be `Bug`
* for task it will be `Task`

Feel free to drop a mail on : gahan94rakh@gmail.com or ask it on gitter if you have more queries.
Happy Coding !!
